# Test Lab API: Upload single test result (once)

API group: [Upload](../ag-architecture-guidebook#System-APIs-and-Interfaces)

This API provides upload endpoints for UK wide integration of virology test result delivery to the NHS CV19 App System. Uploaded tests are distributed to mobile clients with a latency of min 2h, best we expect 4h, worst case 6 to 24 hours.

The endpoint URL has path elements specific to the external system using it, for instance `npex` for test results sent from the english test results database or `fiorano` for results sent by the welsh integration component, operated and maintained by the NWIS Integration service.

Please note: the Token API and the Test Lab API are conceptually the same endpoint. The key difference is that the Test Lab API expects a ctaToken as input (generated by our system) and the Token API returns a ctaToken. These two APIs will eventually be merged into the Test Lab API (sometime after the national launch).

Please note: You must call either the Token API or the Test Lab API to send a test result to the backend (not both at the same time)

## Endpoints

- NPEx posts a json test result: ```POST https://<FQDN>/upload/virology-test/npex-result```
- Fiorano posts a json test result: ```POST https://<FQDN>/upload/virology-test/fiorano-result```

## Payloads

### NPEx test result upload

```json
POST https://<FQDN>/upload/virology-test/npex-result
{
    "ctaToken": "t1qjee7p",
    "testEndDate": "2020-04-23T00:00:00Z",
    "testResult": "NEGATIVE"
}

POST https://<FQDN>/upload/virology-test/npex-result
{
    "ctaToken": "64hr743d",
    "testEndDate": "2020-07-23T00:00:00Z",
    "testResult": "VOID"
}
```

### Fiorano test result upload

```json
POST https://<FQDN>/upload/virology-test/fiorano-result
{
    "ctaToken": "9bknrr20",
    "testEndDate": "2020-05-23T00:00:00Z",
    "testResult": "POSITIVE"
}

POST https://<FQDN>/upload/virology-test/fiorano-result
{
    "ctaToken": "hj3dz378",
    "testEndDate": "2020-05-23T00:00:00Z",
    "testResult": "INDETERMINATE"
}
```

### Validation

- `ctaToken` Token must exist in the system (i.e. test ordered by the mobile application - which uses the [VirologyTestingAPI](./virology-testing-api.md) internally) - and be valid according to regular expression `[^a-z0-9]` (any combination of small chars and numbers).
- `testEndDate` ISO8601 format in UTC. Example: `2020-04-23T00:00:00Z`. Time is set to `0` to obfuscate test result relation to personal data
- `testResult` one of the following
  - NPEx `POSITIVE | NEGATIVE | VOID`
  - Fiorano `POSITIVE | NEGATIVE | INDETERMINATE`
- **One-time upload only**: we don't accept multiple uploads with the same ctaToken. If the result already exists for a specific ctaToken then a 409 (Conflict) is returned. Once uploaded with `202` the test result will be distributed to all mobile clients.
- Please note: INDETERMINATE and VOID are both treated as VOID by the mobile application - the behaviour could change in the future

## Response Codes

Default -> [Upload Response Codes](../api-patterns.md#Upload)

## Notes

- Note that **distribution to mobile clients** depends on system latency *and* mobile systems background polling scheduler. So it might take between 6h to 24h until uploaded test results are finally delivered to the mobile app.
  
- **Expected Fiorano load**
  - Subset of all test results (those with a cta token)
  - numbers TBD

- **Expected NPEx load**, Mail (2020-07-21)
  - Deloitte testing process, all results: Daily - Up to 100,000 results, Hourly - Up to 20,000. Test Lab API will receive only a subset
  - results aren't evenly distributed throughout the day
  - tend to receive large batches of results in close succession
  - only be sending a subset of these results to the Test Lab API
  (the ones where the request contained a 'ctaToken')

- **Requirements vs proposed rate limits**
  - NPEx can configure rate limits, so don't exceed a predefined message rate
  - NPEx still retries with exponential backoff on 429 response

| | daily | daily/average RPS	| hourly	| hourly/average RPS |
|-| ------ | -----------------| -------- | ----------------- |  
|NPEx all results | 100000|	1,16 |	20000	| 5,56 |
|Fiorano all results | TBD|	TBD |	TBD	| TBD |
|Test Lab API proposed | 	8640000	| 100 | 	360000	|100 |
